# AI powered chatbot 


<!-- TABLE OF CONTENTS -->
<details open="open">
  <summary>Table of Contents</summary>
  <ol>
    <li><a href="#project-description">Project Description</a></li>
    <li><a href="#approach">Approach</a></li>
    <li><a href="#instructions">Instructions</a></li>
    <li><a href="#evaluations">Evaluations</a></li>
    <li><a href="#conclusion">Conclusion</a></li>
    <li><a href="#contact">Contact</a></li>
  </ol>
</details>

<!-- Project Description -->
## Project Description

This project explores different methodologies in creating a QA chatbot for local knowledgebase. 

<!-- Approach -->
## Approach

We employed various approaches to create this chatbot. In the notebook folder, you can find different models.

The [notebooks/baseline_model](notebooks/baseline_model.ipynb) comprise a Question-Answering Search Engine utilizing Transformers. Initially, the documents were encoded by a Bi-Encoder, followed by retrieving the top 5 most relevant pieces of information from the corpus. Subsequently, the model re-ranks these top 5 candidates through a cross-encoder, and the highest-ranked result after re-ranking is selected as the answer.

Several other models were developed by leveraging Large Language Models.

The first solution is an open-source solution. We employed Hugging Face embeddings and Google's Flan-T5 as the Large Language Model for synthesis. Further details can be found here: [notebooks/Flan_T5](notebooks/Flan_T5.ipynb)

The winning model is a hybrid solution, where we utilized Hugging Face for embeddings and OpenAI to synthesize the answer. Additional details can be found here: [notebooks/Hybrid_Model](notebooks/Hybrid_Model.ipynb)


<!-- Instructions -->
## Instructions

The material used to construct local knowledge base should be in either PDF or Google doc. All notebooks were created using Google Colab. To execute the notebooks:

1. Upload the material to a Google drive folder, and get the folder id. 

2. For baseline model, copy the folder id of each of the subfolders and saved them into 'folder_id' variables

3. For LLM models,replace the 'folder_path' variable of each notebook with the location you just saved.

Examples of both 'folder_id' and 'folder_path' are already provided in the notebooks.


<!-- Evaluations -->
## Evaluations


For qualitative evaluation, we manually compared the results generated by the chatbots with the sample answers. The outcomes are as follows:

Hybrid Model: 78%
Flan-T5: 40%



<!-- Conclusion -->
## Conclusion

In a remarkable feat, this chatbot has attained the ability to answer questions with human-like proficiency. Notably, it possesses multilingual capabilities. Despite training on an English corpus, the Chatbot can aptly address inquiries in virtually any language. This achievement was made possible by integrating Google Translator—when posed in German, questions receive responses in German.

Moreover, we employed prompt engineering techniques to ensure that the Chatbot responds exclusively to context-based queries. This enhances the precision and relevance of its responses

<!-- Contact -->
## Contact

If you find this repo interesting or would like to suggest improvements, please get in touch. we would be happy to hear from you.
